# Cybersecurity-and-Privacy-Preservation-Techniques-and-Digital-Security-and-Privacy

## Title
The Valorization and Monetization Personal Data: GDPR Compliances, Business Models of Digital Content and Services and Personal Data Commodification

### Abstract
This paper examines the data-driven economy, with a focus on digital content and service providers and the various business models currently dominating in terms of data monetization and data valorization. With an emphasis on the European Union and the legal framework of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), an inspection of its implementation with a focus on the rights it provides data subjects against extensive profiling for the purpose of monetization is conducted. In addition, a review on the roles of data controllers must undertake and to ensure data subjects’ rights. The examination involves assessing different business models by categorizing them as high-risk (such as data as a payment) and low-risk (pay-for-privacy , personal data economy, and privacy-focused model) based on the standards they undertake to process personal data. Relating this with GDPR’s protective measures and an attempt to shed light on the challenges faced by high-risk business models, we get to see the endeavor undertaken by big technology companies that are primarily reliant on processing personal data. Despite the efforts unintended consequences, such as market concentration are witnessed. The paper recognizes, debate surrounding the clash between fundamental right and data-as-a-payment is an ongoing one and the need for a case by case evaluation will be at the forefront in settling such intricacies. Overall it is imperative for data subjects to make informed decisions about the digital content or services they use. It is recommended that a shift toward privacy focused service providers would be the best option to obtain the optimal outcome of minimal risk.
